Promises are awesome.
As we learned at length in the last lesson,
promises are convenient, chainable,
and we can control them individually or in groups.
We can do all sorts of things which might leave you with a question,
why hardly two years after promises came to
JavaScript in ES6 was async/await added in ES8?
We know promises solve to the pain point of callback hell,
but what pain point does async/await solve?
The answer is that scheduling asynchronous events,
even with promises, is hard.
It can get complex especially if you perform long strings of asynchronous events.
One of the great things about promises that they are
non-blocking can also be one of the things that makes them difficult.
Take a look at this example,
it might seem silly,
but things like this can be surprisingly
tricky because of the non-blocking nature of promises.
When I run the code,
you'll be able to see the problem.
Because promises are asynchronous,
the calculation runs while the two promises are still pending.
That's why we get these two pending notes here for value1 and value2.
So how could you do something so simple as perform
an operation on the result of two separate promises?
Here's where you could easily find yourself down
a rabbit trail of chaining [inaudible] and making
new promises inside of the [inaudible] of
another promise or you could set a timeout across the whole thing,
but it's not an ideal solution,
or at least it's not super easy.
But you know what is easy?
Synchronous code. We're all used to working with synchronous code.
So what if we could make our asynchronous events easier for our tired 2:00
AM code brains to understand by making them act more like synchronous events.
You might be incredulous and think that you can't have the best of both worlds like that.
But aha, that is the pain point async/await was meant to solve.
How does async/await achieve this wonderful sounding scenario?
Find out in the next lesson as we explore the async/await syntax.